# TypeScript

There's two ways of getting TypeScript:

- Via `npm`
- Or via VSCode plugins.

## Introduction

If we create a `*.ts` file, we can translate it into plain JavaScript with the command:

```zsh
tsc test.ts
# Will create a test.js file in the same directory
```

Also, if we do `tsc --init` it will create a *tsconfig* file in our root directory.

## Type annotations

Types are ways of record the intended data structure of a function or a variable.

We can find the most common types you would expect in any language:

### Boolean

The most basic datatype

```typescript
let truth: boolean = true;
let dare: boolean = false;
```

### number

All numbers in typescript are floating point values.

```typescript
let integer: number = 10;
let float: number = 5.2;
```

### String

String data type is used to textual data types. It supports double quotes, single quotes or backticks.

```typescript
let greet: string = 'Hello!';
```

### Array

Array types can be written in two ways.

```typescript
// Use the type of the element followed by []
let list1: number[] = [1, 2, 3];
// Use a generic array type: Array<elemType>
let list2: Array<number> = [1, 2, 3];
```

### Tuple

Tuple types allow you to express an **array** where the type of a spacific number of elements in it are known, but **not need to be the same kind**.

```typescript
let tuple: [string, number];
x = ['lalala', 5];
```

TypeScript will check the type of each element and allow or forbid operations or access on it.

If the access is on an element outside the set, a **union type** is used:

```typescript
x[3] = 'world'; // x[3] will be the type string | number
console.log(x[5].toString()); // OK, 'string' and 'number' both have 'toString'
x[6] = true; // Error, 'boolean' isn't 'string | number'
```

### any

There's a special data type in TypeScript call `any`.
When we assign a *any* data type, we are telling the compiler not to read that viarable in strict mode.

```typescript
let object1: any = { id: 1, name: 'item 1' };

object1 = { id: 2 };
```

In the previous case, the compiler would have alerted of a type error in object1, but since we are assigning it a *any* data type we can omit the *name* property of the object.

### Enum and const enum

Enums are a a special data type borrowed from other languages like C# or Java that let us associate a human-readable name with for a specific number.

```typescript
enum doorState { Open, Close, Ajar };
```

There's another version of the enum, the `const enum`, that has been introduced for performance reasons.

---

In the following example we are defining that the parameters of the _sum_ function are numbers.

```typescript
function sum(a: number, b: number) {
    return a + b;
}
```

### **BONUS:** Explicit casting

There may be moments when we need to explicitly specify the type of an object. We can cast the type of an object in TypeScript with the `<`  `>` syntax.

*NOTE:* This is not strictly a cast, but more like an anssertion, since all the code in converted to JavaScript.

*NOTE 2:* There's a programming principle called **SFIAT** or **_Simply Find a Interface for that Any Type_**, that defends that we should create interfaces instead of using the type any.
An interface is a way of defining custom types.
