# Functions

## Return types in a function

So far we have seen data types for variables. But we can take advantage of the same syntactic sugar used before to define the data type of the return statement in a function.

Taking the last bit of code as a example:

```typescript
function sum(a: number, b: number): number {
    return a + b;
}
```

## Optional parameters

TypeScript introduces the question mark `?` syntax to specify optional parameters.

```typescript
function concatStrings( a: string, b: string, c?: string) {
    return a + b + c;
}
```

Remember that the optional parameter must be always the last parameters defined in a function.

## Default parameters

In the same way we can define optional parametes, we could define defualt parameters that they could get when that parameter is being omitted.

```typescript
function concatStrings( a: string, b: string, c: string = 'hola') {
    return a + b + c;
}
```

## Rest parameters

In JavaScript, we can access the number of parameters passed in a function through the keyword `arguments`.

To do the same in TypeScript we beed the rest parameter syntax

```typescript
function testArguments(... argArray: number []) {
    if (argArray.length > 0) {
        for (var i = 0; i < argArray.length; i++) {
            console.log(`argArray[${i}] = ${argArray[i]}`);
            // use JavaScript arguments variable
            console.log(`arguments[${i}] = ${arguments[i]}`)
        }
    }
}
testArguments(9);
testArguments(1,2,3);
```

## Function overloads

One common task we can do in JavaScript is call the same function with different types.
The way we could imitate this in TypeScript is with **function overloads**. This, like Java, let us redeclare the same function multiple times, changing the data type of the parameters.

```typescript
function add (a: string, b: string): string;
function add (a: number, b: number): number;
function add (a: any, b: any): any): any {
    return a + b;
}
```

There's three points of interest to note here:

- We only have the body of the function in the last function declaration.
- The last one should be type _any_.
- Despite being assigned **always** any at the end, we can oly use the types defined before that.

# Advanced type features

## Union types

TypeScript allows us to define a type as the combination of two or more types using the pipe symbol `|`.

```typescript
let twoTypes: string | number;

twoTypes = 'hola';
twoTypes = 1;
```

## Type guards

A type guard is an expression that performs a check on our type, and guarantees the type within that scope.

## Type aliases

If we are going to use the union types and find them difficultd to remember, we can assign thenm variable names as follows so we can reuse them with ease.

```typescript
// First example
type TwinType = number | string;
function sum (a: TwinType, b:TwinType): TwinType {
    return a + b;
}
// Second example
type CallbackWithString = (string) => void;
function foo (bar: CallbackWithString) {
    // ...
}
```